---
title: Citation Keys
weight: 3
aliases:
  - /Citation-Keys
  - /citation-keys
tags:
  - citation keys
---

## Generating citekeys for your items

The BibTeX citations keys generated by the standard Zotero exporters are always generated at time of export, using an algorithm that usually generates unique keys. For serious LaTeX users, "usually" presents the following problems:

* If a non-unique key is generated, which one gets postfixed with a distinguishing character is essentially
  non-deterministic.
* The keys are *always* auto-generated, so if you correct a typo in the author name or title, the key will change
* You can't see the citation keys until you export them

For a LaTeX author, the citation keys have their own meaning, fully separate from the other entry data, even if
people usually pick a naming scheme related to them. As the citation key is *the* piece of data that connects your
bibliography, this is a piece of data you want to have control over. BBT offers you this control:

* Stable citation keys, without key clashes. BBT generates citation keys that take into account other existing keys in your library in a deterministic way, regardless of what part of your library you export, or the order in which you do it.
* BBT is conservative about citation key changes, and allows you to fix keys to any value of your choosing.
* Generate citation keys from JabRef(-ish) patterns.

You can also

* Drag and drop LaTeX citations using these keys to your favorite LaTeX editor
* Show your citation keys in the item list view.

## Set your own, fixed citation keys

By default, BBT generates the citation key from the item information, and this key may change when you edit the item. Such keys are called `dynamic` keys, which are marked with a pushpin the item list view and in the item details to distinguish them from dynamic keys.

You can fix the citation key (called `pinning` in BBT) for an item by adding the text `Citation Key: <your citekey>` anywhere in the
`extra` field of the item on a line of its own. You can generate a pinned citation key by selecting one or more items, right-clicking, and selecting `Generate BibTeX key`, which will add the current citation key to the `extra` field, thereby pinning it.

## Drag and drop/hotkey citations

You can drag and drop citations into your LaTeX/Markdown/Orgmode editor, and it will add a proper `\cite{citekey}`/`[@citekey]`/`[[zotero://select...][@citekey]`. The `cite` command is
configurable for LaTeX by setting the config option in the [preferences]({{< ref "installation/preferences" >}}). Do not include the leading backslash.

This feature requires a one-time setup: choose the Quick Copy format under the `Citation keys` preferences for BBT, and go to Zotero preferences, tab Export, under Default Output Format, select "Better BibTeX Quick Copy: [format you just selected]".

## Find duplicate keys through integration with [Report Customizer](https://github.com/retorquere/zotero-report-customizer)

The plugin will generate BibTeX comments to show whether a key conflicts and with which entry. BBT integrates with
[Zotero: Report Customizer](https://github.com/retorquere/zotero-report-customizer) to display the BibTeX key plus any
conflicts between them in the zotero report.

## Configurable citekey generator

BBT also implements a citekey generator for those entries that don't have a citekey set explicitly; the formatter pattern language used to follow
the [JabRef key formatting syntax](https://help.jabref.org/en/BibtexKeyPatterns), but now uses a javascript-ish format. You can set your generator pattern in the Better BibTeX
preferences (you can get there via the Zotero preferences, or by clicking the Better BibTeX "Preferences" button in the addons pane.

The default key pattern is `auth.lower + shorttitle(3,3) + year`; if you have papers that use keys which were generated by the key generator of the standard Bib(La)TeX exporters of Zotero you may want to use `zotero.clean` instead in order to ease migration from existing exports for people who previously used the standard Zotero Bib(La)TeX exports. You will be offered this choice on first run of BBT.

A common pattern is `auth.lower + year`, which means

1. last name of first author without spaces, in lowercase
2. year of publication if any,
3. a letter postfix (a, b, c, etc) in case of a clash (this part is always added, you can't disable it, although you can change it to Zotero-style numeric)

Changing a pattern will only affect items created/changed after you changed the pattern; existing keys are not automatically regenerated when you change the pattern. If you want your keys to update after a pattern change you will have to select your items, right-click, and select `Refresh`. This will not affect keys you have pinned.

If you want to get fancy, you can set multiple patterns separated by a vertical bar, of which the first will be applied
that yields a non-empty string. If all return a empty string, a random key will be generated.

An example application for this behavior is to use the `tex.shortauthor` from the [extra field]({{< ref "../exporting/extra-fields" >}}) when defined to generate short citation keys for entries with long group author names, but to default to `auth.lower` otherwise:

```text
extra('tex.shortauthor').transliterate.clean.lower.len + year | auth.lower + year
```

You can add a verbatim text by just including it in single or double quotes:

```text
extra('tex.shortauthor').transliterate.clean.lower.len + year | 'default' + auth.lower + year
```

### Generating citekeys

To generate your citekeys, you use a formula composed of functions and filters. Broadly, functions grab text from your item, and filters transform that text. **Note that the formula syntax has changed from a bracketed format to a javascript-ish format**. The old syntax was getting harder to maintain and its inflexibility prevented new extensions to the functions being implemented cleanly. **The old syntax still works** and will be translated to the new format automatically and displayed below the old format if you use it. At some point not too far away, BBT will automatically upgrade old patterns and use those directly. But for now you can choose which format you use.

Below you will find a full list of functions and filters you can use, in the new format only, sorry. You can till use these in the old syntax, but they support only positional parameters, where I would recommend generally to use the new syntax with named parameters.

#### Functions

{{< citekey-formatters/functions >}}

**Note**: All `auth...` functions will fall back to editors if no authors are present on the item.

**Note**: the functions above all have the `clean` filter (see below) applied to them by default. You can turn that off by passying `clean=false`.

### Direct access to unprocessed fields

The above functions all retrieve information stored in the item's fields and process it in some way. If you don't want this, you can instead call field contents without any processing. To access Zotero fields, refer to them as given in the table below:

{{< citekey-formatters/fields >}}

(fields marked <sup>JM</sup> are only available in Juris-M).

#### Filters

{{< citekey-formatters/filters >}}

*Usage note*: the functions `condense`, `skipwords`, `capitalize` and `select` rely on whitespaces for word handling. Most functions strip
whitespace and thereby make these filter functions sort of useless. You will in general want to use the fields from the
table above, which give you the values from Zotero without any changes. The fields with `**` are only available in Juris-M.
