---
title: "Push/Pull export"
weight: 2
aliases:
  - /export
  - /Customized-Exports
  - /Push-and-Pull-Export
  - /pull-export
tags:
  - export
  - overleaf
---
## Push Export / Auto-Export

When exporting using Better BibTex you will be offered a new export option: `Keep updated`. Checking this option
registers the export for automation; any changes to the collection after you've completed the current export will
trigger an automatic re-export to update the bib file. You can review/remove exports from the BBT preferences.  While
I've gone to some lengths to make sure performance is OK, don't go overboard with the number of auto-exports you have
going. Also, exporting only targeted selections over your whole library will get you better performance. You can set up
separate exports for separate papers for example if you have set up a collection for each.

**Both push and pull export really only support local access, that is, the Zotero client must be running on the same system where you compile your LaTeX document.**

That said, there are a few ways to get your BBT-generated bib files to other places. If you're thinking of this in the context of Overleaf, here's a TL;DR of the pros and cons:

* Auto-export + cloud-sync
  * pro: gets the full bibtex file to Overleaf, should be seamless
  * con: have not tested, paid option on overleaf
* Auto-export + `git`:
  * pro: gets the full bibtex file to Overleaf, tested and works
  * con: requires technical expertise to set up, paid option on overleaf
* citekey pinning:
  * pro: no setup
  * con: only gets the BBT citekeys, BibTeX is generated by Zotero itself

### DropBox / Google Drive / Box.com / ...

Or any other of the plethora of choices that are available today that will "cloud-sync" your files. Just auto-export your bib file to a cloud-synced folder, and Bob's your uncle. Incidentally, this should work with Overleaf, but I have not tested it personally, as I use...

### git support

BBT auto-export works nicely with git services (such as Overleaf, which is where I use it myself; the instructions for setting up Overleaf for git can be found [here](https://www.overleaf.com/blog/195-new-collaborate-online-and-offline-with-overleaf-and-git-beta) -- note these instructions are for Overleaf V1 projects, not V2 projects, which will get git support only late 2018), but any git service (gitlab, github, etc) should work exactly the same. I'm toying with various online services [here](https://github.com/retorquere/zotero-better-bibtex/projects/2).

**Note that this is more for the technically inclined,** you will need to be comfortable with the command line to set this up. I can't think of a real benefit to using git over cloud-sync unless, like me, you like to keep a backup history in git.

To activate git support, first clone the repo that holds your article/thesis/whatnot from your provider (github, overleaf, etc), run `git config zotero.betterbibtex.push true` in a command shell in that clone, and set up an auto export to that directory; at each update, BBT will now also push your library to the git service. For the technically curious, that means it does:

1. `git pull`
2. Performs the export
3. `git add <your library file>`
4. `git commit -m <your library file>`
5. `git push`

Note that the nature of git commit/push is not file-bound; if you made edits to other files, and added those, they will be committed and pushed along. If you want to be super-careful, the best way to go about it is to have a separate clone of your repo that BBT auto-exports to, and then another repo that you do your own edits in. I don't use it myself this way, but you have been warned.

### Pull Export

**This will *only* work if you are compiling your document on the same system your Zotero client with BBT runs on**. *Technically* it can be made to work for pulling from other systems, but it's even more arcane to set up than git.

You can fetch your library as part of your build, using something like `curl`, or with a BibLaTeX remote statement like

```
\addbibresource[location=remote]{http://127.0.0.1:23119/better-bibtex/collection?/0/8CV58ZVD.biblatex}
```

You can fetch your bibliography on the url http://127.0.0.1:23119/better-bibtex/collection?`[collectionID]`.`[format]`, where collectionID is:

* the ID you get by right-clicking your collection and selecting "Show collection key"
* the path "/[library id]/full/path/to/collection" (the library id is the first number from the key you get in the
  option above; it's always '0' for your personal library)

or any multiple of those, separated by a '+' sign.

The format is either 'bibtex' or 'biblatex', and determines the translator used for export.

You can add options to the export as URL parameters:

* `&exportNotes=[true|false]`
* `&useJournalAbbreviation=[true|false]`

### Pinning BBT citekeys for Overleaf

If you only want BBTs citation keys on Overleaf, you can simply pin them and use the regular Overleaf-Zotero integration. This will get you the pinned keys, but the bibtex is generated by the standard Zotero exporters.
