---
name: Key generation question
about: You have a question about key generation.
labels: citekey, question
---

*Please verify **all** of the below before submitting*:

1. you have picked the right category for the issue in the previous screen.
2. You are on the latest release of Zotero
3. in the Zotero addons screen you can see that you have the latest release of BBT (https://github.com/retorquere/zotero-better-bibtex/releases/latest)
4. you are posting a single bug or feature request.
5. the issue has a subject that succinctly describes the problem or question.
6. you are available for follow-up questions and testing.
7. you have included an support log ID here generated by reproducing the problem, selecting the problematic reference(s), right-clicking, and submitting an BBT support log from that popup menu, **not** from the `Help` menu.
8. you have included the *actual output* you got from exporting the items you sent in the debug log, not simplified fictional output or a description of the output, and a sample (*not* a description) of how you want it to look instead, again based on the actual items you selected in the previous step.

Picking the right issue category is really important. Each category (`Export`, `General error`, `Import`, `Key generation`, `Question`) has different instructions for gathering the data necessary required to resolve the issue you are experiencing

The support log is important; it gives me your current BBT settings and a copy of the problematic reference as a test case so I can best replicate your problem. Without it, I'm effectively blind.


If you've verified all of the above, please remove the instructions up to and including this line.

**Zotero version:**

**BBT version:**

**Support log ID:**

**Expected behavior:**

**Actual behavior:**

