{{/* DO NOT EDIT. This shortcode is created automatically from Preferences.xul */}}
{{ "#### Export unicode as plain-text latex commands (recommended)\n\nBibTeX has really spotty Unicode support, so you generally want this on. It will translate things like accented characters\nto their equivalent LaTeX constructs on export.\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### Disregard name prefixes when sorting\n\nName handling is a lot more complex than I had ever thought it to be. A *lot* more complex. BibTeX has\nreally limited ways of dealing with names with particles (van, von, de, etc). If you turn this on, BBT\nwill add code to have `van Gogh` sorted under `Gogh`.\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### Add URLs to BibTeX export\n\nBibLaTeX supports urls in your references natively; BibTeX does not. For this reason, URLs are\nomitted from BibTeX exports by default. Using this setting you can have them added to your exports either in a `note`\nfield (not as clean, but compatible with BibTeX out of the box), or in a `url` field (requires extra packages to be loaded,\nor bibtex will error out).\n\nOptions:\n\n* no\n* in a note field\n* in a URL field (requires custom style for url field support)\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### Export unicode as plain-text latex commands\n\nBibLaTeX actually has really good Unicode support, so you generally want this off. But for some geezers such as me it is\nsimply more pleasing to have things like accented characters translated to their equivalent LaTeX constructs on export.\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### Use BibLaTeX extended name format (requires biblatex 3.5)\n\nUse the extended biber 2.7 format for names with particles - only works in BibLaTeX 3.5 or later.\nThis biblatex has a new (less ambiguous) way to store creator names. It's technically\nsuperior, but the LaTeX world moves slowly, so many people won't have it yet. But if you're an early adopter,\nyou can enable it here\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### When a reference has both a DOI and a URL, export\n\nDoes what it says on the tin, really. If a reference has both a DOI and an URL, you can choose to have them both exported, or either one of them.\n\nOptions:\n\n* both\n* DOI\n* URL\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### Fields to omit from export (comma-separated)\n\nIf there are some fields you don't want in your bibtex files (such as `note` for example), add a list of them here, separated by comma's.\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### Include JabRef-specific metadata:\n\nExport JabRef-specific information fields; timetamps and groups for collections. Note that format `4` will disable caching in exports,\nwhich is really undesirable specifically for auto-exports.\n\nOptions:\n\n* no\n* for JabRef 3\n* for JabRef 4\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### Include comments about potential problems with the references\n\nGenerate quality reports for exported references.\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### Include automatic tags in export\n\nSome importers or Zotero extensions (such as the ShortDOI manager for example) create tags on items that are more for item management than that\nthey are descriptive of the item. When this is off, such tags will not be included in the export.\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### Automatically abbreviate journal title if none is set explicitly\n\nIf set, generates journal abbreviations on export using the Zotero journal abbreviator, according to the abbreviation style selected in the list below the checkbox.\n\n" | markdownify }}
{{ "#### Abbreviation style:\n\nSelect the style for auto-abbreviation. Only applicable to Juris-M; in Zotero, the style for automatic\nabbreviation is not configurable.\n\n" | markdownify }}

